does it feel like no matter what you're
doing you just can't grow on Instagram
maybe your Instagram was growing a few
months ago or even a few years ago and
recently it's just been totally stagnant
or maybe your reals views have just been
in the trash recently and you're
wondering what the heck happened well
the Instagram algorithm has changed and
in today's episode I'm going to share
with you the three big changes that have
taken place on Instagram in 2024 that
you need to be aware of moving forward
and what's totally unique about these
Instagram algorithm changes is that
usually we just have to rely on our own
data case studies and just polling
people on an individual small scale to
figure out that these changes have taken
place but for arguably the first time
ever Instagram is actually letting us
know about these changes in real time
numerous official Instagram accounts
including Instagram CEO Adam moseri the
creators Instagram account and Instagram
for business Instagram account have all
been posting updates that give us not
just Clues but direct information as to
what the Instagram algorithms are
looking for in order to help us get more
views and more
followers and if you're someone with
less than 2,000 followers make sure you
stick around until the end of this video
because after I share the three big
algorithm updates I'm going to tell you
some new statistics that have recently
come out that might help change your
strategies or at least alter how you
think about posting on Instagram because
there's some new numbers that are kind
of shocking even the first time I saw
them pertaining specifically to accounts
with less than 2,000 followers so like I
said make sure you stick around until
the end the first quote unquote new
algorithm change that we need to cover
in today's episode is not necessarily A
change as it is a confirmation from
Instagram and from their CEO and that is
something that we have been sharing here
at build your tribe and within the insta
clubhub for the last few years and it
pertains to the best form of Engagement
for quite a while there have been people
arguing online about what's the best
form of engagement on Instagram or to
ask this another way what leads to the
most views is it comments is it likes is
it saves is it shares is it comments of
three words are more is it someone
spending more than 5 seconds is it
someone watching your video more than
once what is the best direct form of
engagement on Instagram and for the last
few years we have been saying that a
share is the best form of Engagement and
finally Instagram CEO has come out and
said that that is exactly what they are
looking for in fact according to Adam
moseri the number one factor that
determines what get you more views and
more reach on Instagram is shares per
view so if you get 100 views and 13
shares then your share rate is 133% that
would be pretty crazy high for most
people it's probably going to be below
5% but the more shares you can get on
your posts the more views they are going
to get and this is backed up not only by
the fact that the algorithm is set up
this way this is just how human nature
Works yes the algorithm is going to make
make sure that your content gets more
reach and more views if it's getting a
lot of shares but that's naturally going
to happen as well first let's talk about
the algorithm the algorithm's job in
Simplicity is to deliver people the
content they are looking for and one
unique distinction that is often made by
people who officially work at Instagram
or Who deliver information on Instagram
is that Instagram's algorithm is not
just looking to deliver people with the
content they want it's looking to
deliver content to people that will
connect them with each other and so if
we break down what that truly means it
means that the Instagram algorithm is
looking for shares because a share is
the most immediate way that two people
can connect over one piece of content a
like is something that you can do on
your own and it likely is not going to
connect you with anyone else and the
same thing goes for a save when you save
a post it goes into a private folder
that probably only you have access to
when you comment other people can engage
but it's not 100% of the time even if
you're tagging other users it's not
always a guarantee that it's going to
lead to multiple people interacting with
that post when you share a post however
it directly leads to more people getting
in conversation about said post whether
you're sharing the post to your story so
that numerous people can see it you're
sending it to just an individual person
you're sending it in the direct messages
you're sending it in your group chat
wherever when you send SL share a post
with someone else it directly equates to
more views and that equates to more
people connecting over content on
Instagram so on one hand yes the
algorithm wants us to get more shares
because it brings more people to
Instagram but if we just think about
human nature and how we use social media
shares Trump the algorithm and they say
hey algorithm no matter what changes
take place if I'm getting shares more
people are going to be viewing my
content it doesn't matter if the
algorithm thinks your post is terrible
if I see your post and I send it to my
wife that guarantees that the number of
views have just doubled from one being
me solo to now my wife being the second
person and that is why for the last few
years we at build your tribe and within
the insta clubhub have been saying that
shares are the best form of Engagement
they are the form of Engagement that
most directly lead to more views they
don't rely on the algorithm to then give
you more views and to say oh hey this
person got a lot of shares so let's make
sure a lot of people see it no when your
post gets a lot of shares it
automatically gets a lot more views and
that's why creating sharew worthy
content is a sustainable strategy not
something that is meant to hack the
algorithm we meant to beat Instagram
it's not something that's only going to
work for the next few days or weeks or
months increasing your share rate also
known as creating sharew worthy content
is something that has been working for
years and it will work for the
foreseeable future those are the kind of
strategies that we teach in the insta
clubhub those are the kinds of things
that we talk to our members about and
that we deliver trainings for them on
because yes there are always going to be
new hacks and fads and trends that are
here one day and gone the next and might
give you a nice pop of views But
ultimately those aren't the things that
your business's Foundation are going to
be built on if you're trying to grow a
brand or a following or a business on
Instagram then you need to know the
things that are going to be constant and
you need to be updated in the moment
when those things change if they do and
that's what we provide in the insta
clubhub so little Shameless plug if you
want to check out the insta clubhub and
just see everything that we have to
offer you can check it out for 2 weeks
for just $7 by visiting insta
clubhub.com
slal and we'll put that link down in the
description slow notes down below but
getting back to sharew worthy content of
course creating sharew worthy content is
great and yes your goal should be to get
more shares but besides telling people
hey share this post or tag a friend how
do you actually get more shares what
kind of content is actually share worthy
well don't worry I've got you covered
there are five categories of content
five types of posts that on average get
the highest shares and I'm going to
share those five things with you right
now and I should say that your posts
actually can fit into multiple of these
categories at once which makes them even
that much more sharew worthy these five
things are in reverse order so the first
thing I'm going to share with you is the
least sharew worthy out of the five it's
still very sharew worthy it'd be like
being the shortest person in the NBA
like it's still going to be a tall
person it's just not going to be the
tallest so the first thing I'm going to
share is the least sharew worthy of the
five but still more sharew worthy than
the average post nonetheless and that is
inspirational or motivational content
think of inspirational quotes
motivational reminders things like that
are very sharew worthy because
essentially a lot of people when they're
scrolling through Instagram or even
scrolling through social media in
general can feel down and dejected and
hopeless and sad and overwhelmed and
scared of all the negative news that
they're seeing all over their feed and
so when you can share some sort of
inspirational reminder or motivational
message or quote that is something
that's highly sharew worthy because
people want to pass that along right
it's like sharing the good news it's
spreading some light it's making an
emotional impact on the viewers and then
hopefully inspiring them to want to
spread that message that's the idea
behind inspirational content and why it
is so sharew worthy the second form of
sharew worthy content which if you're
following the list is the fourth most
sharew Worthy kind of post is what I
like to call a call to Arms a call to
Arms is kind of like Hey we're all in
this together let's all help each other
out if we have any history Buffs think
of like Rosie the Riveter from World War
II right it's like we're all in this
together we all need to help each other
we all need to support each other we all
need to spread a message I can think of
you know the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge
where everyone was dumping buckets of
ice on their head and raising money for
ALS and also tagging people it was like
a viral social media trend where people
were tagging AKA sharing these posts
with each other so a call to Arms can be
very highly sharew worthy more recently
than both of those actually just in
February this year there was a kind of
collective social media movement that
took place on both Instagram and on Tik
Tok where there was a musician and
artist her name was cat Janice or Janice
I'm not sure uh how to say their last
name but essentially and this is really
tragic and sad she was dying of cancer I
don't think she was fully on hospice yet
but she knew that the Outlook was great
and so she went on social media and
basically made a post saying I have
signed away the rights to all of my
music my catalog to my son so that if or
I think she might have even said when I
pass away all of the income all of the
streaming royalties and the the monetary
gain the money basically from people
listening to my songs that's all going
to go to my son so even though I might
not be able to Pro be here to provide
for him hopefully my music can still
continue to provide for him tragic story
she has since passed away which is which
is just so sad but it shows the power of
this kind of like Call to Arms content
and how people are like Hey we're all in
this together let's all help support I
myself made a post using the song and
promoting it and telling people to
stream the song and save the song
themselves and that post for me ended up
being one of my best posts of the entire
year not that that's the point right
like obviously there's a much more
important cause here than me getting
some more likes this is just an
explanation and an example as to how
Call to Arms content can be very sharew
worthy and so for me that post got over
a thousand shares and it got over
400,000 views which was again like I
said arguably one of my highest
performing posts in all of 2024 so far
but that was just my personal example I
think an even crazier example is that
her original post got 4.4 million views
and from that post from this Call to
Arms This movement of hey let's all use
her song and stream it and promote it
her song currently on just Instagram has
792 th000 uses 700 almost 800,000 people
used her song in their real or in their
post and thus promoted her music and
promoted the streaming and the listening
of her songs that's pretty crazy that
shows the power uh when you get the
community involved and when you say hey
like we all need to help each other out
we all need to support each other here
that is a call to arms and it can be a
very very potent viral strategy but in
my opinion from what we've seen it's can
be a little bit challenging to create
those style of posts and if you're
calling on your community for support
you know multiple times a week every
week it can start to lose its power if
that makes sense but overall it's still
one of the most in fact in my opinion
the fourth most effective strategy or
fourth most effective kind of post for
getting shares third on the list the
third most effective strategy for
getting shares is relatable content and
relatable content is kind of an umbrella
term that I think is easiest to think of
as just memes right meme pages are the
biggest pages on pretty much every
social media with the exception of Mega
celebrities and mega influencers meme
accounts grow like crazy they grow super
fast and they do so because they all are
creating sharew worthy content it's the
kind of content that when you see it
you're like oh my gosh this is so me
this is so relatable this is so my life
or you send it to your partner and
you're like this is so you or this is so
us we need to watch this or you send it
in your group chat because it reminds
you of a friend or it reminds you of
your friend group or it reminds you of
such and such individual that you all
know relatable content highly sharew
worthy and relatable content AKA meme
content is also very very easy to create
because it doesn't often require you to
put your face on camera to script
anything to write anything to talk to
the camera or even use even a video of
yourself in most cases often times viral
memes are just like
screenshots or photos from you know
different moments like the halftime show
at the Super Bowl or like I know there's
going to be 50 bajillion memes coming
out as we near the US presidential
election and so these kinds of content
are very relatable people can like see
themselves in this content and you're
basically just making a funny joke or
making light of a tough situation or
you're calling out something that people
don't even realize they think about or
they do all the time but they do and so
relatable content is highly highly
sharew worthy the second most share
worthy content on all of Instagram and
arguably all of social media is
controversial content now even just
saying that might be controversial so
let me explain please hear the the full
explanation as to why I'm quote unquote
recommending that you post controversial
stuff I would never say I would never
recommend or teach that you post
controversial things just for the sake
of being controversial I would never
recommend that you post things that are
negative or mean or hateful or divisive
or you know get people to argue and get
people upset that's not the point here
the point I am trying to make is that in
your Niche there are most likely things
that you believe in that the majority of
people probably doesn't believe in
things that might be called a quote
unquote unpopular opinion things where
hey this big influencer or this big
popular name in your Niche or industry
always talks about doing a but you
believe that that's not exactly right
and maybe B is Right sharing about those
things as long as they relate to your
niche in my opinion is one of the best
ways to connect your community and to
increase your shares because here's
what's going to happen when you post
about that quote unquote controversial
opinion or that unpopular opinion one
group of people is going to disagree and
that's always going to happen even if
you make a posting that the sky is blue
people will say well no I just went
outside it's 2: a.m. and the sky is
black right now someone else is going to
say I went outside it's 7:30 and the sky
is red right now so no matter what you
say online people are going to disagree
it's just a matter of how many people
are going to disagree and so those
people are welcome to disagree some of
them are going to get vocal with their
disagreement and they're going to
comment on your post great thanks for
the engagement buddy some of those
people are going to unfollow and if
someone is willing to unfollow you
because God forbids someone else on the
internet one of the other 8 billion
people on the planet has a different
opinion than them then hey that's their
prerogative they're welcome to do so and
I would argue that you don't want that
person as a follower anyways you don't
want that person to stick around because
the likelihood that someone is on the
fence about following versus unfollowing
you like they're teetering back and
forth they're not sure and the straw
that broke the camels back was that they
had a different opinion than you that
person is also not very likely to become
a customer anytime soon it's very
uncommon for someone to be like eh I was
about to unfollow Stacy but then I
became Stacy's customer like that's
that's pretty rare especially if that
person who was unsure about following
you was unsure because of your beliefs
or your values or where you stand like
that's just kind of a disconnect so I
would argue hey let them go you know
it's okay you're always going to have
some unfollows it's better to wean them
out so that your followers are more
ideal that's one group the other group
of people which I would say in most
cases is going to be actually the
majority of people are going to actually
agree with you they're going to be vocal
with their agreement they're going to
thank you for being the one to speak up
on this opinion or this issue or this
topic and here's the kicker they're
going to share the post at a very high
rate because while they believe in the
thing they don't want to be the one to
say it themselves or maybe they can't
think of a way to articulate it in the
way you just did they can't say it like
you said it they can't say it that
concise or that succinct they couldn't
come up with an analogy the way you did
they couldn't explain it with the
credibility or the background that you
did and so the fact that you shared this
opinion it gives them a chance to then
share your post send it to their friends
or post it on their story or whatever
and it's kind of like saying hey I
believe in this but I'm not the one who
said it so like don't shoot the
messenger type of situation and so
controversial unpopular opinions can
often times be very sharew Worthy on
Instagram and on social media as a whole
and then last but not least in fact last
but most the most sharew worthy kind of
content on all of Instagram is trending
topics or pop culture or breaking news
and I can kind of lump all of these
things in because they all have this
time bound aspect to them there are
numerous examples of this and you can
pretty much find in example in every
industry that can relate back to your
own Niche let me give you an example
about a week or so ago at the time of
recording this and mid July 2024 there
was what news organizations were calling
the biggest Tech outage in history there
was like some issues I guess and a bunch
of Microsoft systems went down and
planes were grounded and hospitals lost
access to their administrative sites and
it was just a major chaos major issue
and a lot of people like got the day off
of work a lot of people didn't have to
come in a lot of people they couldn't
use their business's Tech operations and
so they basically just got to stay home
that day so even though you might not be
in the it field you might not be in the
you know technology sector you might not
even be in a sector that has anything to
do with technology maybe you could find
a way to turn that trending topic that
breaking news into a moment for your
Niche into something that relates to
your industry somehow and maybe you
could even make it you know relatable
let me give you an example just off the
top of my head let's say that you are in
the fitness industry and you are
specifically like a running coach you're
helping people learn to run their first
half marathon maybe you're going to take
this internet outage thing and you're
going to make a meme or you're going to
make a post about how hey since the
internet's down and no one can go to
work today this would be a great day to
train for your half marathon I'm sure
you could come up with a funnier and
more specific example than that but
that's a way that you can take pop
culture breaking news or something it's
trending in the moment and relate it
back to your Niche I know earlier I
mentioned the Super Bowl and I mentioned
memes there are always at the Super Bowl
halftime show so many memes so many
iconic moments that stand out from the
show and people use that relating it
back to their Niche and create sharew
worthy content from it and yes this
could even technically extend into like
trending audios although trending audios
are not necessary to grow and I think in
most times most cases people are putting
too much of an emphasis on trending a
audios they're caring too much about
whether or not the audio is trending
with all that being said trending audios
can help and if you catch the wave early
enough and you hop on the trending viral
meme or the viral type of video or
whatever early enough then it can
absolutely be very sharew worthy and
perform very well for you so again those
were the five most sharew worthy posts
on all of Instagram and we were talking
about that because Shares are the best
form of Engagement if you want more
views now there's another form of
Engagement that is very heavily weighted
in the Instagram algorithm but the
differentiation here is that this next
form of Engagement that we're going to
talk about is an indirect form of
Engagement while Shares are a direct
form of Engagement but the
differentiation here is that this next
form of Engagement is a passive form of
Engagement while Shares are a active
form of Engagement what I mean by that
is when someone is sharing your post
they have to take an action right it
requires activity on their end they
can't just sit there they have to
actually move their fingers around or
move the C around tap on the share
button and then send it to a friend so
that's a direct form of Engagement it's
an active form of Engagement the other
form of Engagement that Instagram really
cares about that is a passive form of
Engagement is watch rate and there's a
difference between watch rate and watch
duration watch duration also known as
watch time is just the total amount of
time that someone is watching your video
watch rate on the other hand is a
percentage it's the percentage that
someone has watched your video so let's
say that there are two two reels posted
one is 10 seconds long and one is 30
seconds long let's say that the viewer
whoever's watching these reals they
watch both of them for 30 seconds so
they both have an equal watch time or
watch duration they both have 30 seconds
of watch time/ watch duration but when
we're looking at watch rate real B that
was 30 seconds long had a 30second watch
duration and it was 30 seconds long so
that means its watch rate was 100% but
real a remember was only 10 seconds long
so if someone watched that for 30
seconds you could also think about it
they watched it from start to finish
three times that's a 300% watch rate and
Instagram will favor that re so you can
think about those basic numbers and
conclude that yes Instagram favors
shorter content now does that mean that
you need to make your reals 5 seconds or
only 10 seconds long no we'll get into
what I recommend in terms of a sweet
spot in just a second but I also want to
warn people against doing the 1 second
real Trend which is a trend of fad
that's going around right now where
people are using audios that are a
second or even less than a second in
length and they're creating reels that
are super super short and they're doing
this because it sends your watch rate
through the roof if you create a
1-second reel and you put like two
sentences of text up top people are
going to take five or six seconds to
read those sentences that's a 500 or
600% watch rate so essentially what a
lot of people are doing right now it's a
very popular trend trend is they're
hacking watch rate by creating 1 second
reels however what we found is while
that may work for the algorithm that
does not work for the audience and what
I mean by that is the algorithm loves
that you have a high watch rate but your
viewers and your followers hate that
they're having to watch a 1 second reel
that's just you like sniffling or like
literally just blinking that's like the
most popular one second reel it's just a
blinking sound effect and it's super
annoying for viewers when we poll people
over 90% of respondents say that they do
not like these style of reals and I hear
from countless people that when they see
someone posting a 1-second reel they
either intentionally don't engage they
tap that they are not interested or they
even go so far as to unfollow people
just for posting a 1-second reel so yes
while I said watch rate is the best form
of passive engagement on Instagram and
it's something that Instagram really
cares about be careful not to prioritize
the algorithm over your audience but
with that being said though yes
generally speaking a shorter reel is
better than a longer reel to improve
your watch rate without doing the whole
1 second real Trend here are three
things that you can try out number one
first and foremost improve your hooks
the hook is everything and I think that
80% of your effort and time should be
spent focused on the first 20% of your
video the first opening 5 to 10 seconds
or maybe even just the first 1 second
are crucial to get someone sticking
around around to get someone viewing
your reel from start to finish even if
you're doing a b-roll reel where it's
just like a single clip that's 6 seconds
long and you're just putting some text
on the screen that text on the screen
and specifically the first sentence or
even the first few words of that text
needs to have a hook it needs to be
something that's going to stop people
scroll and grab their attention if you
want a free list of hook ideas we have a
list of the 25 most viral hooks this
comes from a study that we did of over a
thousand different Tik toks and reals
that we analyzed that had gone viral
over a million views and we pulled out
the audio from all of these transcribed
them and then we just totaled up what
were the hooks that people were using
and what were the hooks that were
showing up most frequently it's free to
download I'll link that up in the show
notes in the description down below
again 25 viral hooks that you can easily
just plug into your own content because
improving Your Hooks will improve your
overall watch rate the second thing that
you can do to improve your watch rate is
eliminating pauses and Dead Space and
ums and S and O also eliminating things
like greetings often times people will
start their content by saying hello or
hi or welcome back or so today we're
going to talk about you don't need to
mince words or take your time with those
sorts of Greetings or formalities people
want the content they want you to get
right into it and you don't know if
someone's welcoming and viewing your
content for the first time or if you
should say welcome back because they've
watched every one of your videos so it's
truly best to just get right into it and
in your editing
edit out any sort of pauses or thought
or what can often be called the
millennial pause which is where at the
beginning of videos there will often
times be like a half second pause where
you're taking a breath in and also
making sure that the camera is actually
recording so just eliminate all of those
things and it should help improve your
watch rate and then the third thing that
I will recommend for increasing your
watch rate is to actually look at your
analytics and Instagram now when you
click view insights on your reel it will
show you a watch time met trick and this
shows you the average length of time
that someone watches your real and I
found it very interesting myself
recently to do this on a reel that I had
posted for a brand in which I was
showing people a demonstration of how to
use the product so the first like 15 16
seconds of the video was just me talking
to the camera it started out with a
strong hook I was giving a little
background and then at the 17sec Mark is
where I started the screen recording and
I started showing people like how to use
the app how to use the product that I
was recommending well when I looked at
my watchtime graph the average duration
that someone watched was 17 seconds and
that tells me that the average person
was hooked when I was talking but then
when it went to the actual screen
recording the demonstration or tutorial
people lost interest or they decided
that they couldn't keep watching or they
didn't want to keep watching and so that
gives me a clue as to how I can change
the Reel so the next time that I post it
or the next time I do a collaboration
with this brand or even just the next
time I want to include a screen
recording or a tutorial in my videos I
should change things up maybe I should
put the tutorial and screen recording
later maybe I should do like a green
screen so that people can still see my
face maybe I should consider not using a
screen recording at all and just telling
people what they need to do and what
steps they need to follow regardless of
what I change it's important to know
where I should change and what I should
change and that is directly informed by
the average watch time of my viewers
moving on now the third big algorithm
change that has recently taken place and
that was recently even confirmed by
Instagram CEO is that Instagram is not
going into long form content before I
get into what that means in the full
explanation how you should change your
content again make sure you stick around
until the very end if you have less than
2,000 followers because there's some
extra information that really is going
to matter to you it's going to make a
big difference towards how you create
content but getting back to this
announcement coming from Instagram CEO
that no we are not going into long form
content what does this mean what does
this look like well we had a clue about
this a few years ago when Instagram got
rid of igtv I might have just unlocked a
memory from for some people some people
might even not know what igtv is some
people might not even recognize that
igtv was taken away igtv used to be a
way that you could post long form videos
onto Instagram if you ever went live on
Instagram and then you posted it to your
feed so that people could watch the
replay technically that replay was
considered an igtv and at one point
there was even a separate app just for
igtv it was for long form content on
Instagram Instagram played with this for
a few years but then around the same
time that they introduced reals they
took away igtv and they did so kind of
quietly but it was an early indication
for me that they deemed long form video
on Instagram to be ineffective or at
least not effective as igtv and so for
the last few years there have been
speculations about reals getting longer
and Instagram has tested this currently
reels are 90 seconds in maximum length
but some people are able to post three
five even up to 10 minute reels on
Instagram and yes they're still
technically considered real for a while
Instagram's been working on this but
from what it seems this isn't something
that they're going to continue working
on or it's at least something that
they're not going to roll out or push
out anytime soon so with all of that
being said and considering what we
talked about earlier about watch rate
what is the ideal length of a reel from
what we've seen because I know people
want a number to stick to from what
we've seen generally speaking reels that
are between 7 seconds and 30 seconds
perform the best does that mean if you
post a 6-second reel you're going to get
crushed or if you post a 32 second reel
you're going to get banned no absolutely
not it just means that generally
speaking reels that are in that 7 to 30
second range are generally most engaging
and I think it's just part of the
mindset of the average consumer on
Instagram the average Instagram viewer
wants to watch reels that are kind of in
that range of 7 to 30 seconds if the
video is very engaging they might watch
for longer if it's not very engaging
they might get bored before they even
reach the 7sec mark but generally
speaking 7 to 30 seconds is a good range
to stick to and with that being said I
will say that on the shorter side of
that range is where they are more likely
to go viral I don't think that virality
should be your goal I don't think that
every one of your posts or even the
majority of your posts should be focused
on going viral but I do recognize that
there are people watching today who just
want to go viral who want to get more
views who want to have this crazy
massive spike in views and engagement
and growth and if that is something that
you're truly chasing after then yes be
aware that reels that are less than 10
seconds long are most likely to go viral
I believe according to one study it was
even less than 8 seconds long so again 7
to 30 seconds is a good Sweet Spot less
than 10 seconds is most likely to go
viral but the most important thing that
I want you to remember is the mini skirt
rule the mini skirt rule was named by
one of our insta clubhub members and I
just absolutely love this analogy for
thinking about your reels and
specifically how long should your reels
be your reels length should be like a
minis skirt Translation your reels
should be long enough to cover what you
need to cover to cover the important
bits but still short enough to hold
attention what that means is you
shouldn't cut your reels off too short
because you want to force people to read
the caption but you also shouldn't be
redundant and repeat the same sentence
multiple times and give unnecessary
examples and just draw out the reel for
the sake of making it longer The Minis
skirt rule long enough to cover what you
need to cover but still short enough to
hold attention keep that in mind the
next time you're creating your reels and
last but not least I told yall to stick
around to the end here we are I hope no
one skipped ahead to this point if you
did Skip ahead I'll know and I'm going
to be knocking on your door within the
next hour or so kidding but the
important thing that I needed to let you
know is that there was a recent study
done by metrol where they analyzed
millions of posts from hundreds of
thousands of Instagram profiles and they
found some really interesting numbers
when they came out with their 2023 study
it was shocking to see that the average
reals views dropped by about
75% which is crazy when you think about
it the average person was getting 3/4
less views in 2023 than they were in
2022 well now their new 2024 study has
come out and there's more interesting
information more numbers that we have
found that are important for you to know
again especially if you're someone with
less than 2,000 followers and the change
in views from 2023 to 2024 is crazy but
essentially for accounts with between 0
and 500 followers they have essentially
seen their views double in the last year
they're getting two times as many views
in 2024 as they were in 2023 3 but then
if you look at accounts that are between
500 and 2,000 followers they are getting
more views in 2024 it's still an
increase but it's significantly less
than accounts with less than 500
followers you can even see that accounts
with between 2,000 and 10,000 followers
are still getting less views on average
than accounts with less than 500
followers and so what this leads us to
conclude is that while yes Instagram is
prioritizing smaller accounts and yes
yes everyone's views are going up which
is awesome they are giving extra
preferential treatment to new accounts
or baby accounts or micro accounts or
whatever you want to call them basically
accounts with less than 500 followers
and I believe that this is an intention
by Instagram for multiple reasons one of
them being that if someone is new to
Instagram Instagram kind of wants to get
them hooked early on and so they're
going to give them extra views to get
them hooked I think another reason
probably the most important reason or
the main reason why people with less
than 500 followers are getting that many
views is because the algorithm has to
learn where to place them the algorithm
has to test and figure out who is going
to be interested in this account who is
going to engage with these people's
reals and because this person only has
10 followers that's a very small sample
size so the algorithm is like let's push
this reel let's push these posts out to
more people so we can get an
understanding of who engages with these
accounts I think many people when they
see this graph are going to feel
frustrated because you're between 500
one and 10,000 followers and you kind of
feel like you're screwed over you're
like what the heck Instagram used to
give me views but now my views are stuck
and I don't think it's necessarily that
Instagram is taking views away or
throttling the views or intentionally
limiting the reach for accounts between
500 and 10,000 followers I think rather
there are just a lot of other factors at
play and probably the biggest one is
that the majority of people between 500
and 10,000 are people who have been on
Instagram for quite a while they've
built up more than 500 followers over
the course of years but they've changed
niches a few times they haven't ever
really stayed consistent they've never
truly niched down all the way they've
sold multiple different things in
different Industries a lot of their
followers who they gained 10 years ago
or five years ago or even just two years
ago aren't as active or aren't as
engaged anymore and so I think it's less
so that Instagram is punishing accounts
between 500 and 10,000 and more so that
Instagram is rewarding accounts with
less than 500 and the other accounts are
kind of plagued by numerous different
factors so what this leads me to
conclude and even recommend is that you
could consider starting a new account if
you are between 500 and 10,000 followers
you've had your account for numerous
years your engagement is really low
maybe you bought followers at one point
you've changed Industries or professions
multiple times you might want to
consider starting a new account we have
done an entire episode to build your
tribe in the past on should you start
over and kind of like a a checklist so
we'll definitely link that up somewhere
up here if you're watching on YouTube so
that would be definitely a next step if
you're between 500 10,000 and your views
are critically low and you're
considering starting over check out that
episode but also while it might be
frustrating to look at this graph and
see the numbers I think rather than
focusing on the fact that views are
lower for accounts with between 500 and
10,000 followers we should all be
thankful that views are going up for
everyone they might not be going up
equally for everyone they might not be
going up to an equ amount or be going up
as much as you want but views are going
up for everyone on average and that's
exciting that is something that we
haven't seen on Instagram in the last
few years and so with all of these
algorithm changes if you can continue to
create sharew worthy content if you can
continue to prioritize increasing your
watch rate then your views will increase
and you will outperform the averages on
that graph your account will continue to
grow and you will continue to get new
followers if you enjoyed today's episode
make sure that you don't forget to
subscribe for more we release one
episode every single week just like this
packed full of free value and
information thank you so much for
listening or watching today and as
always happy networking
[Music]